# FRCRobots
A collection of progrmas for driving and communicating with remote robots to compete in the FIRST Robotics Competition writtin in Java.

  In my senior year of high school, I was the lead (and only) program developer on my highschools robotic team, the Seaside Baybots 4171, and I wrote programs for the variety of bots that were created by the engineering and driving team. As the dev, I would communicate and research with the egineers to solve problems in the FRC challenges. Together, we competed in 2 different seasons of FRC, the Fall 2017 and Spring 2018 seasons.

  The code I wrote was built on top of simplistic driving code as a base, though since a new robot was built every season, the pnumatic devices, specifics of the drivetrain, and UI changes all had to be built using research of the FRC Java libraries. The 'AustinGRIP2' folder is the culmination of of the latest bot i programmed for. It includes nuematic controls as well as image detection software I programmed with the help of GRIP2. Essentially, as an added incentive to add image detection the FIRST team put reflective tape around the goal so robots could detect and drive towards the goal.
  
    The 'minibot' was a special robot we built that a unique drivetrain, almost like 4 wheel drive that could rotate each wheel separately, allowing it to piviot in place. Due to it's diminuative size and how much power we put into it, it flew circles around the shop. In addition, we strapped a NavX chip made specifically for plugging into the FRC mobo. It's like a super gyroscope that could track relative motion and speed, essentially allowing the code driving it to know where it is in the arena at all times. Unfortunately, I didn't get to play much with it before I graduated, since we didn't use it in any official sense, and most focus was on the competeing robot.
